At the beginning of the roller coaster, the drop height needs to be m. The higher the drop height will allow for increased amounts of potential energy.
Potential energy will allow the roller coaster to accelerate faster and make it more exciting.
From my first trial, I found that with an initial drop height of m, the car had , J of potential energy at the top and , J of kinetic energy at the bottom.
When I increased the initial drop height to m, the car had , J of potential energy and , J of kinetic energy at the bottom.
Therefore, to allow for the roller coaster to go faster, m will be the best option for the drop height.
Since this roller coaster is used in a frictionless environment, the potential energy kinetic energy will always equal the same thing.
The only energy involved will be mechanical energy because there is no force of friction acting upon the objects.
Due to this, as the roller coaster goes down the hill, all the potential energy will convert into kinetic energy.
Similarly, as the car goes up the hill, the kinetic energy will convert into potential energy.
As such, the total energy will remain the same throughout.
We know this because of the law of conservation of energy.
Another thing to take into consideration is the hill height in regards to the initial drop height.
Due to the frictionless environment, the hill height can be anything less than our initial drop height of m. As such, we decided that a hill height of .m will be the best.
As the car goes up the hill, the kinetic energy converts back into potential energy.
Since our initial drop height was greater than .m, it will have enough potential energy to get up the hill.
In my first trial, I found that a hill height of m with an initial drop of m, would have , J of potential energy, but it would not be enough to get over the hill.
But, with the same initial drop height of m and , J of potential energy, we would be able to get over a hill of .m with J of kinetic energy left over.
Lastly, we need to take into consideration the mass of the car.
I think that a car with a mass of kg will be the best for this roller coaster.
I found that a car with a greater amount of mass will result in a greater amount of potential energy at the top of the initial drop.
In my first trial, a car of kg resulted in , J of potential energy at the top of the initial drop, and , J of kinetic energy at the bottom.
But, when I used a car with kg it resulted in , J of potential energy at the top of the initial drop, and , J of kinetic energy at the bottom.
The more mass we use, the more total energy there will be resulting in a faster more exciting roller coaster.
