I think that the initial drop of the roller coaster should be meters tall, this is because the higher the initial drop is, the more potential energy there is.
The more potential energy the better.
I know this because when the height was meters tall the potential energy was at the top, but when it was meters tall the potential energy at the top was .
Now the relationship between the height and the initial drop of the kinetic energy at the bottom is direct because as height increases so does the kinetic energy.
Now I know this is true because height affects velocity.
The further you fall, the more you have to accelerate.
Now height and potential energy is the same way, it is a direct relationship because of the more height the more potential energy.
I know this because it's in the formula mxgxh.
The relationship between potential energy and kinetic energy, and total energy is direct because the more potential energy and the more kinetic energy, the more total energy.
The relationship between potential and kinetic energy.
when going down the drop is different though because the potential energy at the bottom of the drop was always , according to my data.
But the kinetic energy at the bottom of the drop all depended on how much potential energy there was at the top of the drop, which also depended on how high the drop was.
Like I said before.
So now for hills, the hill always has to be lower than the initial drop.
So in this case, if my initial drop was I think the best height for your hill should be .
m because then you can have many hills after that.
They just have to get smaller and smaller.
Because if you start with J of potential energy at the top of the initial drop and then you add in a .
m hill, with the potential energy of , you still have plenty of potential, and kinetic energy to get to the end.
Now when talking about making it to the end of the roller coaster you have to look at the mass of the car.
because if the car has a lot of mass it's going to have more potential energy and kinetic energy because they are both a direct relationship.
and I know this because it's stated in both formulas, mxgxh, and mxv squared.
But if you have a car with less mass it will have less potential energy and less kinetic energy.
I think you should have a car with a mass of because it's between and .
And then it will still have a good amount of potential and kinetic energy, so make it to the end.
Now you may be wondering how do we get all of this energy, well because energy does not get created, or destroyed the energy is already there.
because when the car is going down the hill, and then stops at the end it goes from kinetic energy to potential energy.
