If you're looking for excitement, the Waverider's got your back. Armed with revolutionary technology, the very Earth around you, and science, this rollercoaster is both fun and functional. With an incredibly tall drop into a beautiful canyon, the Waverider can gain loads of potential energy from the get go. Once it starts moving, it has lots of kinetic energy to spare once the exhilarating drop is done. This is because the high drop acts as both a tool for gaining potential energy as well as it is a tool for excitement! Some of our incredibly precise trials have helped to prove this. When the height of a drop was meters, the PE at the top was J, and the KE at the bottom was J. However, when we changed it to meters, the PE shot up to J, and the KE to J. All of that helped to let us know that a high drop is definitely the way to go! When enjoying the Waverider, it's important to consider the potential, kinetic, and total energy and how it works. At the start of its tall drop, it has a lot of potential energy that goes right into kinetic energy once it goes down. Because of PE and KE's inverse relationship, when potential energy goes down, kinetic energy shoots right up. Throughout the ride, the energy fluctuates as it travels between potential and kinetic energy when the ride slows down and speeds up. However, the total energy never changes. This is due to the Law of Conservation of Energy, meaning that energy can't be created or destroyed. Even though PE and KE are constantly changing between one another, total energy always stays the same. Another aspect of enjoyment is hills because we love hills! However, implementing these into your designs can be tricky, because as the cart goes up the hill, its KE goes down and PE goes up, and if there isn't enough KE, it simply comes right back down. During our research, we found that in order to get over the hill, it needs to be shorter than the initial drop. In our research, the cart was able to pass the hill except for when the hill was not shorter than the drop. But when it was the same height or higher, it failed to have enough kinetic energy to make it over. In addition, our carts are state of the art with high masses. That helps add to the functionality of the coaster, because mass, PE, and KE have a direct relationship. When mass increases, PE increases, and so does KE. And as we know, more PE and KE is always a good thing. In this scenario, of course. Our tests prove this as well when we sent a kg cart down a drop, it's PE at the top was J and J for its KE at the bottom. This contrasts the kg cart, which had J of PE at the top and J of KE at the bottom. Therefore, our high mass carts are very helpful to the Waverider's success. When it comes to making a rollercoaster, many aspects of the design have to come into account. However, Waverider has managed to do all of this and more to create the perfect design for the Gonzales family.